 The act of thinking also introduces an element of strain into the use of our minds. And this then requires a certain effort to make thought keep up with what we are seeing or what we are hearing. Thought, as I said, is slower because it goes in a line thought after thought. And also thought is abstract. That is to say it lacks the full living quality of real life. Now, the more we tend to live in a world of thought, the more we tend to live in an abstract world. That is removed from and has a gap between it and the real world of nature. And as a result of this, we tend to live in a world that is in some ways unsatisfying, lacking in vitality and life. And also, people tend to think all the time. This becomes for every civilised, community, every civilised person must have habit, as like constantly talking to yourself, out of the side, because after all, we have to be silent some of the time, don't we? In order to hear what other people have to say, and therefore have something to talk about. In just the same way, our minds have to be silent some of the time. If we are really to have anything to think about, except thoughts. You know, there is a popular proverb, which says that talking to yourself is the first silent madness. And the some truth in this, because constant thinking, as distinct from simply experiencing through our senses, constant thinking about our experiences, coding our experiences into words, into signs, into the symbols of thought, is a buzz that goes on day in and day out inside our heads, except when we are asleep. And as a result of that, we begin to live in a world increasingly divorced from reality. And that is why in those oriental cultures in India and China and Japan, it has always been considered important, for everybody to spend some of his time, by no means all of his time, but some of it, not thinking. This is not saying that thinking is a disturbance, is a thing that human being shouldn't do, on the contrary, it's a highly important acquisition of man. But thinking is of no real value to us, unless we also can practice normal thinking, unless we can have our mind silent and make immediate contact with the real world as distinct from the world of pure abstraction. And so this leads to a very common practice in Asia among Hindus, among Buddhists, among Dau's, called meditation, is that it is through this that one comes to have a contact, no longer with a world of abstractions, no longer with a world of thought, but with the world that actually is. Now as you do this, you begin to notice a rather curious change in your general feeling of life. You notice that there are ceases to be what I would call an interaction or an interval between your experience and yourself. You see, in our ordinary way of using our minds, the chronic sense of strain, the chronic attempt to think about and make sense of what we are feeling is what we call our ego. And this chronic sense of strain is our psychological blocking against our experience. The thing that seems to divide us from an external world, from the whole universe. But when in this way, the interval begins to diminish. We begin to experience our world. As ourselves, there is no interval, there is no interaction between the Noah and the Noah, just as when we are completely absorbed listening to music or dancing to music. We are not aware of our separation front, we go right with it. And so in the same way, when the mind responds instantly to what the senses breathe, it seems almost as if the mind and what it experiences were of one the same.